# Architecture References

A collection of quality architecture references. Make use of good
reference architecture to speed up the creation of your Solution
Architecture.

## Architecture magazines

[Architectuur en Governance
magazine](http://www.architectureandgovernance.com/)

Architecture & Governance Magazine is a publication of Troux
Technologies.

[DoDAF V2.02
Journal](http://dodcio.defense.gov/Library/DoD-Architecture-Framework/dodaf20_journal/)

The DoDAF Journal is a community of interest based discussion board. The
Journal includes descriptions of best practices.

[Journal of Enterprise Architecture (AOGEA
Journal)](http://www.globalaea.org/?page=JEAOverview)

The Journal of Enterprise Architecture (JEA) is published quarterly by
the Association of Enterprise Architects. It is a peer-reviewed
international quarterly publication for the Enterprise Architecture
community. Standard magazine for all TOGAF certified architects...

[Journal of Information Architecture](http://journalofia.org/)

The Journal of Information Architecture is an international
peer-reviewed scholarly journal. Its aim is to facilitate the systematic
development of the scientific body of knowledge in the field of
information architecture.

[The Architecture Journal
(Microsoft)](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/architecture/bb410935.aspx)

The Architecture Journal is an independent platform for free thinkers
and practitioners of IT architecture. New editions are issued quarterly
with articles designed to offer perspective

[XR Magazine](http://www.xr-magazine.nl/)

XR Magazine is Dutch online platform and magazine for managers and
architecten. (Language dutch).

## Architecture Methods

[Archimate](https://pubs.opengroup.org/architecture/archimate3-doc/)

Archimate 3 version: The ArchiMate enterprise architecture modelling
language offers an integrated architectural approach that describes and
visualizes the different architecture domains and their underlying
relations and dependencies. More info can be found on:
<https://www.opengroup.org/archimate-forum/archimate-overview>

[ARIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Architecture_of_Integrated_Information_Systems)

ARIS (Architecture of Integrated Information Systems). Long time a
industry default standard. Not anymore however -) ARIS is now more a
tool of Software AG's. ARIS Business Process Analysis Platform is ideal
for organizations that want to document. 
[Vendor Learning portal](https://learn.softwareag.com/totara/catalog/index.php?catalog_hierarchy_panel%5B%5D=7&orderbykey=time&itemstyle=narrow)

[Cloud Computing Patterns](http://cloudcomputingpatterns.org/)

Describing good solutions to reoccurring problems as patterns is a
common practice in research and industry alike. While the development of
cloud applications faces many new challenges

[DYA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DYA_framework)

Primary Dutch EA method. Used and owned by Sogetti. [Vendor info](https://www.sogeti.nl/expertises/methodes/dya/dya-tools-templates)


DYA|Infrastructure brings business agility

[EAM Pattern Catalog](http://wwwmatthes.in.tum.de/wikis/eam-pattern-catalog/home)

The objective of the EAM Pattern Catalog is to complement existing
Enterprise Architecture (EA) management frameworks

[EAM Pattern Catalog](https://wwwmatthes.in.tum.de/pages/3b4t6l34g936/EAM-Pattern-Catalog-Wiki)

The objective of the EAM Pattern Catalog is to complement existing
enterprise architecture (EA) management frameworks, which provide a
holistic and generic view on the problem of EA management, and to
provide additional detail and guidance needed to systematically
establish EA management in a step-wise fashion within an enterprise.

[FSAM (Federal Segment Architecture Methodology)](http://www.fsam.gov/index.php)

The Architecture and Infrastructure Committee released the Federal
Segment Architecture Methodology (FSAM) v1.0 in December 2008. The FSAM
features easy-to-use templates that expedite architecture development
and maximize architecture use. The FSAM includes step by step guidance
based on business-driven

[FSAM (Federal Segment Architecture Methodology)](http://www.fsam.gov/index.php)

The Architecture and Infrastructure Committee released the Federal
Segment Architecture Methodology (FSAM) v1.0 in December 2008. The FSAM
features easy-to-use templates that expedite architecture development
and maximize architecture use. The FSAM includes step by step guidance
based on business-driven

[GERAM (Generalised Enterprise Reference Architecture and
Methodology)](http://www.ict.griffith.edu.au/~bernus/taskforce/geram/versions/geram1-6-3/v1.6.3.html)

The scope of GERAM encompasses all knowledge needed for enterprise
engineering / integration. Thus GERAM is defined through a pragmatic
approach providing a generalised framework for describing the components
needed in all types of enterprise engineering/enterprise integration
processes.

[ITANA architecture library](https://spaces.internet2.edu/display/itana/Library)

ITANA library for architects. ITANA is focused on developing the skills,
tools and a suite of resources to assist institutions with their
enterprise, business and technical architectural needs. Very useful
collection of documents, tools and more for architects!

[TOGAF](http://pubs.opengroup.org/architecture/togaf9-doc/arch/index.html)

TOGAF is a framework - a detailed method and a set of supporting tools -
for developing an enterprise architecture.

[OIAr](https://www.infra-repository.org/oiar/index.php/Main_Page)
OIAm stands for Open Infrastructure Architecture method (OIAm). OIAm provides a structured, repeatable, efficient and powerful way to create meaningful overarching designs for IT infrastructure. The method is tried and proven with organizations up to multinationals, and has community content at the front and centre. This site is in the process of being updated, to reflect the latest insights that are being described in a new book ‘Bringing IT architecture to life’ (English) / ’Levende IT-Architectuur' (Dutch).

## Architecture organizations

[Association of Enterprise Architects (AEA)](http://www.globalaea.org/)

The Association of Enterprise Architects (AEA) is the definitive
professional organization for Enterprise Architects. Our goals are to
increase job opportunities for all members and increase their market
value by advancing professional excellence

[BIAN (Banking Industry Architecture Network)](https://bian.org/)

The BIAN model is a Service Oriented Architecture with consistent
service definitions, level of detail and boundaries. This makes it
easier to choose and integrate commercially available products of
different vendors.

[the Enterprise Architecture Center Of Excellence](https://www.eacoe.org/)
EACOE.org is a practitioner-based firm advancing the Enterprise Architect profession, discipline, and base of understanding - since 1972.

[Distributed Management Task Force](http://www.dmtf.org/)

DMTF's Systems Management Architecture for Server Hardware (SMASH)
standard is a suite of specifications that deliver industry standard
semantics, protocols and profiles to make data center resource
management interoperable.

[Enterprise Architecture Center of Excellence
(EACOE)](http://eacoe.org/mission.shtml)

The mission of the Enterprise Architecture Center of Excellence (EACOE)
is to be the definitive source for all aspects of Enterprise
Architecture

[IASA (Global IT Architects Association)](http://iasaglobal.org/)

Iasa is the premier association focused on the architecture profession
through the advancement of best practices and education while delivering
programs and services to IT architects of all levels around the world.
Our mission is to make IT architecture the most recognized profession in
the world.

[ITAG – Information Technology Architecture
Group](http://web.mit.edu/itag/index.html)

The MIT Enterprise Architecture Guide (EAG) documents MIT's
architectural principles and goals, the current state of MIT's
enterprise architecture, and a future state architectural vision. The
EAG also includes information regarding the ITAG architecture review
process. Since this document serves to inform developers about available
enterprise tools and services, we expect the EAG will be useful to
enterprise system developers across the institute.

[NAF (Nederlands Architectuur Forum)](http://www.naf.nl/)

Dutch organization for promoting working with the IT architecture
discipline. (EA driven)

[KNVI architectuur](https://www.knvi.nl/interessegroep/architectuur)

Dutch department under KNVI (Dutch non-profit IT organization for Information 
professionals). This architecture group works with couple with other
Dutch EA groups when organizing meetings and creating workgroups.

[Software Engineering Institute
(SEI)](http://www.sei.cmu.edu/architecture/)

The Software Engineering Institute (SEI) is a federally funded research
and development center (FFRDC) sponsored by the U.S. Department of
Defense (DoD). It is operated by Carnegie Mellon University. The SEI
offers many (free) publication on all aspects of software architecture.

[The Information Architecture Institute](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_Architecture_Institute)
Archive of the IAI: [http://archive.iainstitute.org/](http://archive.iainstitute.org/)

The Information Architecture Institute is a 501(c)6 professional
organization

[The Jericho
Forum](https://collaboration.opengroup.org/jericho/?gpid=326)

The Jericho Forum

[The MOD research group](http://modelbased.net/)

Research group on model-driven software engineering at SINTEF The MOD
research group is part of the Department of Networked Systems and
Services within the Division of Information and Communication
Technology. This group is located in Oslo

[The Open Data Institute (ODI)](https://theodi.org/)

The Open Data Institute works with companies and governments to build an
open, trustworthy data ecosystem, where people can make better decisions
using data and manage any harmful impacts. The ODI produces guides,
standards and more to make the use of data simpler.

[The Open Group](https://www.opengroup.org/)

The Open Group is a global consortium that enables the achievement of
business objectives through IT standards. With more than 400 member
organizations.


## Architecture Patterns


[Cloud Design Patterns: Prescriptive Architecture Guidance for Cloud
Applications
patterns](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn568099.aspx)

This site contains twenty-four design patterns and ten related guidance
topics, this guide articulates the benefit of applying patterns by
showing how each piece can fit into the big picture of cloud application
architectures. It also discusses the benefits and considerations for
each pattern. Most of the patterns have code samples or snippets that
show how to implement the patterns using the features of Microsoft
Azure. However the majority of topics described in this guide are
equally relevant to all kinds of distributed systems, whether hosted on
Azure or on other cloud platforms. Patterns can also be downloaded as
ePUB or PDF (or ordered as hard copy book).

## Cloud


[Eucalyptus Cloud Reference
Architectures](https://www.hpe.com/h20195/v2/getpdf.aspx/4AA6-2547ENW.pdf)

HPE Helion Eucalyptus, hereafter “Eucalyptus,” is an open source
platform that allows you to build an Amazon Web Services (AW
S)-compatible, on-premise cloud. It is designed to run on commodity
hardware and provide an implementation of popular AWS-compatible
services, such as EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) and Auto Scaling.

[IBM Cloud Computing Reference Architecture
2.0](https://www.opengroup.org/cloudcomputing/uploads/40/23840/CCRA.IBMSubmission.02282011.doc)

Currently adopted by the Open Group

[NIST Cloud Computing Reference Architecture (Version
2)](http://www.nist.gov/itl/cloud/upload/NIST_SP-500-291_Version-2_2013_June18_FINAL.pdf)

NIST Cloud Computing Reference Architecture.

[The Open Guide to Amazon Web
Services](https://github.com/open-guides/og-aws#why-an-open-guide)

This guide is by and for engineers who use AWS. It aims to be a useful,
living reference that consolidates links, tips, gotchas, and best
practices. It arose from discussion and editing over beers by several
engineers who have used AWS extensively.

## Example Architecture

[Architecture of a reproducibility
service](http://o2r.info/architecture/)

This architecture describes the relationship of a reproducibility
service with other services from the context of scientific
collaboration, publishing, and preservation. Together these services can
be combined into a new system for transparent and reproducible scholarly
publications.

## Foundation Architectures

[EAM Pattern
Catalog](https://wwwmatthes.in.tum.de/pages/3b4t6l34g936/EAM-Pattern-Catalog-Wiki)

The objective of the EAM Pattern Catalog is to complement existing
enterprise architecture (EA) management frameworks, which provide a
holistic and generic view on the problem of EA management, and to
provide additional detail and guidance needed to systematically
establish EA management in a step-wise fashion within an enterprise.

[FSAM (Federal Segment Architecture
Methodology)](http://www.fsam.gov/index.php)

The Architecture and Infrastructure Committee released the Federal
Segment Architecture Methodology (FSAM) v1.0 in December 2008. The FSAM
features easy-to-use templates that expedite architecture development
and maximize architecture use. The FSAM includes step by step guidance
based on business-driven

## Guidelines

[Google Site Reliability
Engineering](https://landing.google.com/sre/sre-book/toc/)

This book is a collection of essays by one company, with a single common
vision. Historically, companies have employed systems administrators to
run complex computing systems.We apply the principles of computer
science and engineering to the design and development of computing
systems: generally, large distributed ones. Sometimes, our task is
writing the software for those systems alongside our product development
counterparts; sometimes, our task is building all the additional pieces
those systems need, like backups or load balancing, ideally so they can
be reused across systems; and sometimes, our task is figuring out how to
apply existing solutions to new problems.

[Microsoft REST API
Guidelines](https://github.com/Microsoft/api-guidelines/blob/master/Guidelines.md)

The Microsoft REST API Guidelines, as a design principle, encourages
application developers to have resources accessible to them via a
RESTful HTTP interface. To provide the smoothest possible experience for
developers on platforms following the Microsoft REST API Guidelines,
REST APIs SHOULD follow consistent design guidelines to make using them
easy and intuitive. cc-by-sa document created by Microsoft architects

## Industry Architectures

[Architecture of a reproducibility
service](http://o2r.info/architecture/)

This architecture describes the relationship of a reproducibility
service with other services from the context of scientific
collaboration, publishing, and preservation. Together these services can
be combined into a new system for transparent and reproducible scholarly
publications.

[BIAN (Banking Industry Architecture Network)](https://bian.org/)

The BIAN model is a Service Oriented Architecture with consistent
service definitions, level of detail and boundaries. This makes it
easier to choose and integrate commercially available products of
different vendors.

[Distributed Management Task Force](http://www.dmtf.org/)

DMTF's Systems Management Architecture for Server Hardware (SMASH)
standard is a suite of specifications that deliver industry standard
semantics, protocols and profiles to make data center resource
management interoperable.

[EURIDICE](http://www.iiisci.org/journal/CV$/sci/pdfs/GF869WE.pdf)

EURIDICE is an EU funded project which deals with the development and
implementation of new concepts in the area of intelligent Cargo.

[EURIDICE](https://transport.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2016-10/2016-c-its-deployment-study-final-report.pdf)

Euridice was an Integrated Project funded by EU's Seventh Framework
Programme ICT for Transport Area. The basic concept of Euridice is to
build an information services platform centred on the individual cargo
item and on its interaction with the surrounding environment and the
user.

[Rackspace Open Cloud reference
architecture](https://support.rackspace.com/how-to/rackspace-open-cloud-reference-architecture/)

Description of Rackspace cloud architectural configurations so you known
how to use it for your business or personal project. (cc-by license)

## Microservices

[Designing microservices: Domain
analysis](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/microservices/domain-analysis)

Part of set of articles. Good read before designing, using and building
and running microservices architecture on Azure.

[Microservices architecture style
(Microsoft)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/architecture-styles/microservices)

Nice overview for what, how and when to use microservices. And of course
tailored also for Azure specific details.

[Microsoft REST API
Guidelines](https://github.com/Microsoft/api-guidelines/blob/master/Guidelines.md)

The Microsoft REST API Guidelines, as a design principle, encourages
application developers to have resources accessible to them via a
RESTful HTTP interface. To provide the smoothest possible experience for
developers on platforms following the Microsoft REST API Guidelines,
REST APIs SHOULD follow consistent design guidelines to make using them
easy and intuitive. cc-by-sa document created by Microsoft architects

## Mobile

[Mobile Security Reference
Architecture](https://s3.amazonaws.com/sitesusa/wp-content/uploads/sites/1151/downloads/2013/05/Mobile-Security-Reference-Architecture.pdf)

The Mobile Security Reference Architecture (MSRA) is a deliverable of
the Digital Government Strategy (DGS). A key objective of the DGS is to
procure and manage mobile devices, applications, and data in smart,
secure, and affordable ways. The MSRA has been released by the Federal
CIO Council and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to assist
Federal Departments and Agencies (D/As) in the secure implementation of
mobile solutions through their enterprise architectures

## Principles

[ITAG – Information Technology Architecture
Group](http://web.mit.edu/itag/index.html)

The MIT Enterprise Architecture Guide (EAG) documents MIT's
architectural principles and goals, the current state of MIT's
enterprise architecture, and a future state architectural vision. The
EAG also includes information regarding the ITAG architecture review
process. Since this document serves to inform developers about available
enterprise tools and services, we expect the EAG will be useful to
enterprise system developers across the institute.

[The Principles for Digital Development](http://digitalprinciples.org/)

The Principles for Digital Development find their roots in the efforts
of individuals, development organizations, and donors alike who have
called for a more concerted effort by donors and implementing partners
to institutionalize lessons learned in the use of information and
communication technologies (ICTs) in development projects.

[U.S. Digital Services Playbook](https://playbook.cio.gov/)

U.S. Digital Services Playbook: The American people expect to interact
with government through digital channels such as websites, email, and
mobile applications. By building digital services that meet their needs,
we can make the delivery of our policy and programs more effective.

## Reference architectures

[ATHENA Interoperability Framework
(AIF)](http://athena.modelbased.net/index.html)

The ATHENA Interoperability Framework (AIF) provides a compound
framework and associated reference architecture for capturing the
research elements and solutions to interoperability issues that address
the problem in a holistic way by inter-relating relevant information
from different perspectives of the enterprise.

[Australian Government Architecture Reference
Models](https://www.finance.gov.au/files/2012/04/AGA_How_to_Guide.pdf)

The AGA Reference Models provide a common language for Australian
Government agencies so that their architectures can be described in a
common and consistent manner. cc-by licensed material See also:
<http://www.finance.gov.au/policy-guides-procurement/australian-government-architecture-aga/aga-rm/>

[Cloud Computing Portability and Interoperability (Open
Group)](http://www.opengroup.org/cloud/cloud_iop/p4.htm)

Open Group document. This guide analyzes cloud computing portability and
interoperability.

[Cybersecurity Framework
(NIST)](http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/index.cfm)

The Framework Core offers a way to take a high-level Security Framework.

[Data Transfer
Project](https://datatransferproject.dev/dtp-overview.pdf)

Architecture document of The Data Transfer Project. The DTP project is
formed in 2017 to create an open-source, service-to-service data
portability platform so that all individuals across the web could easily
move their data between online service providers whenever they want. The
contributors to the Data Transfer Project believe portability and
interoperability are central to innovation.

[Distributed Microservice Architecture with
Docker](http://openaccess.uoc.edu/webapps/o2/bitstream/10609/56264/7/iurraTFM0616mem%C3%B2ria.pdf)

Master’s Thesis focused on microservice architecture and Docker

[DoDAF (Department of Defense Architecture
Framework)](http://dodcio.defense.gov/Library/DoD-Architecture-Framework/)

Reference architecture of the Department of Defense (US) The DoDAF
Architecture Framework Version 2.02

[EAM Pattern
Catalog](http://wwwmatthes.in.tum.de/wikis/eam-pattern-catalog/home)

The objective of the EAM Pattern Catalog is to complement existing
Enterprise Architecture (EA) management frameworks

[Eucalyptus Cloud Reference
Architectures](https://www.hpe.com/h20195/v2/getpdf.aspx/4AA6-2547ENW.pdf)

HPE Helion Eucalyptus, hereafter “Eucalyptus,” is an open source
platform that allows you to build an Amazon Web Services (AW
S)-compatible, on-premise cloud. It is designed to run on commodity
hardware and provide an implementation of popular AWS-compatible
services, such as EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) and Auto Scaling.

[EURIDICE](http://www.iiisci.org/journal/CV$/sci/pdfs/GF869WE.pdf)

EURIDICE is an EU funded project which deals with the development and
implementation of new concepts in the area of intelligent Cargo.

[European Interoperablity Reference
Architecture(EIRA)](https://joinup.ec.europa.eu/release/eira/v210)

The European Interoperability Reference Architecture (EIRA©) is an
architecture content metamodel defining the most salient architectural
building blocks (ABBs) needed to build interoperable e-Government
systems. The EIRA© provides a common terminology that can be used by
people working for public administrations in various architecture and
system development tasks. The EIRA© was created and is being maintained
in the context of Action 2016.32 of the ISA² Programme. The EIRA uses
(and extends) the ArchiMate language as a modelling notation and uses
service orientation as an architectural style.

[GEMMA (GEMeentelijk Model
Architectuur)](https://www.gemmaonline.nl/index.php/GEMMA_Architectuur)

(Dutch site) GEMMA 2.0 is een doorontwikkeling naar een architectuur die
de gehele gemeentelijke informatievoorziening beschrijft, helpt bij het
reduceren van de complexiteit van de informatievoorziening, bij het
organiseren van samenwerkingsverbanden en het positioneren van functies
in de cloud.

[GERAM (Generalised Enterprise Reference Architecture and
Methodology)](http://www.ict.griffith.edu.au/~bernus/taskforce/geram/versions/geram1-6-3/v1.6.3.html)

The scope of GERAM encompasses all knowledge needed for enterprise
engineering / integration. Thus GERAM is defined through a pragmatic
approach providing a generalised framework for describing the components
needed in all types of enterprise engineering/enterprise integration
processes.

[IBM Cloud Computing Reference Architecture
2.0](https://www.opengroup.org/cloudcomputing/uploads/40/23840/CCRA.IBMSubmission.02282011.doc)

Currently adopted by the Open Group

[Interoperability Solutions for EU public
administrations](http://ec.europa.eu/isa/library/index_en.htm)

Reference architecture documents for use and reuse developed within EU
program. ISA's collaborative platform to find, reuse and share a wealth
of ready-to-use interoperability solutions for eGovernment and best
practices and discuss with your peers!

[ITAG – Information Technology Architecture
Group](http://web.mit.edu/itag/index.html)

The MIT Enterprise Architecture Guide (EAG) documents MIT's
architectural principles and goals, the current state of MIT's
enterprise architecture, and a future state architectural vision. The
EAG also includes information regarding the ITAG architecture review
process. Since this document serves to inform developers about available
enterprise tools and services, we expect the EAG will be useful to
enterprise system developers across the institute.

[ITANA architecture
library](https://spaces.internet2.edu/display/itana/Library)

ITANA library for architects. ITANA is focused on developing the skills,
tools and a suite of resources to assist institutions with their
enterprise, business and technical architectural needs. Very useful
collection of documents, tools and more for architects!

[ITSM Reference Architecture Framework](https://www.fitsm.eu/downloads/)

FitSM is a free and lightweight standards family aimed at facilitating
service management in IT service provision, including federated
scenarios.

[Microservice Architecture Reference Architecture 2017
(RH)](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/reference_architectures/2017/pdf/microservice_architecture/Reference_Architectures-2017-Microservice_Architecture-en-US.pdf)

Microservice REF architecture 2017 of RedHat. Tailored for Java/JBOS.
But with good general principles. This reference architecture provides a
thorough discussion on microservices, some of the factors that go into
determining a client's needs, and cost to benefit parameters. After
defining several potential modularity levels, this paper focuses on
business-driven microservices and provides an implementation using JBoss
EAP 7 (CC-BY-SA)

[Microsoft Industry Reference Architecture for Banking
(MIRA-B)](https://news.microsoft.com/download/presskits/msfinancial/docs/MIRAB.pdf)

MIRA-B This 2012 Microsoft Industry Reference Architecture for Banking
gives financial institutions a framework to ensure IT meets their
strategic goals across channels and various customer needs.

[Mobile Security Reference
Architecture](https://s3.amazonaws.com/sitesusa/wp-content/uploads/sites/1151/downloads/2013/05/Mobile-Security-Reference-Architecture.pdf)

The Mobile Security Reference Architecture (MSRA) is a deliverable of
the Digital Government Strategy (DGS). A key objective of the DGS is to
procure and manage mobile devices, applications, and data in smart,
secure, and affordable ways. The MSRA has been released by the Federal
CIO Council and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to assist
Federal Departments and Agencies (D/As) in the secure implementation of
mobile solutions through their enterprise architectures

[NEXOF-RA](http://www.ist-world.org/ProjectDetails.aspx?ProjectId=798de085d98b410fb3a8ab9bdf8b7e96)

The overall ambition of NEXOF-RA is to deliver a Reference Architecture
for the NESSI Open Service Framework (ranging from the infrastructure up
to the interfaces with the end users) leveraging research in the area of
service-based systems to consolidate and trigger innovation in
service-oriented economies

[NIH Enterprise Architecture Framework (National Institute of
Health)](http://enterprisearchitecture.nih.gov/)

As a comprehensive framework the NIH Enterprise Architecture identifies
how IT assets directly enable NIH

[NIST Cloud Computing Reference Architecture (Version
2)](http://www.nist.gov/itl/cloud/upload/NIST_SP-500-291_Version-2_2013_June18_FINAL.pdf)

NIST Cloud Computing Reference Architecture.

[NORA
3.0](https://nl.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nederlandse_Overheid_Referentie_Architectuur)

Dutch Government Reference Architecture (version 3.0) )

[Open Security Architecture
(OSA)](http://www.opensecurityarchitecture.org/)

OSA distills the know-how of the security architecture community and
provides readily usable patterns for your application. OSA shall be a
free framework that is developed and owned by the community.

[Oracle Enterprise Architecture Framework : Information Architecture
Domain](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/entarch/oea-info-arch-framework-dev-process-513866.pdf)

The OEAF:Information Architecture. Oracle EA Information reference
architecture. OEAF Domain consists of the following components: Data
Realms, Capability Model

[Oracle Reference Architecture Security Release
3.1](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/entarch/oracle-ra-security-r3-0-176702.pdf)

This document (2010) provides a reference architecture for designing an
enterprise security framework. This framework supports the security
needs of business solutions and helps to unify the disparate security
resources commonly found in IT today. It offers security services that
are critical to the integrity of modern distributed and service-oriented
solutions, and beneficial to legacy systems as well.

[Reference Architecture for Scalable Word Press Websites (on
AWS)](http://d0.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/wordpress-best-practices-on-aws.pdf)

Description of scalability and deployment options when using AWS for
hosting of WorPress sites.

[Reference Architecture Foundation for Service Oriented
Architecture](http://docs.oasis-open.org/soa-rm/soa-ra/v1.0/soa-ra-cd-02.pdf)

This document specifies the OASIS Reference Architecture for Service
Oriented Architecture. It follows from the concepts and relationships
defined in the OASIS Reference Model for Service Oriented Architecture.
While it remains abstract in nature

[ROSA (Referentie Onderwijs Sector
Architectuur)](http://www.wikixl.nl/wiki/rosa/index.php/Hoofdpagina)

(Dutch) Reference Architecture site for Education Sector.

[SOA Reference
Architecture](http://www.opengroup.org/projects/soa-ref-arch/uploads/40/19713/soa-ra-public-050609.pdf)

This specification presents a SOA Reference Architecture (SOA RA)

[Software Assurance Maturity Model](http://www.opensamm.org/)

The Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) is an open framework to
help organizations formulate and implement a strategy for software
security that is tailored to the specific risks facing the organization.

[The Chromium Architecture
(Google)](https://www.chromium.org/developers/design-documents)

Complete architecture and design documentation of the Google Chromium
Projects.

[VMware Infrastructure Architecture
Overview](http://www.vmware.com/pdf/vi_architecture_wp.pdf)

VMware Infrastructure architecture Overview (PDF whitepaper).

[VMware
vSphere](http://i.dell.com/sites/content/business/solutions/engineering-docs/en/Documents/VMware-vSphere-Reference-Architecture-SMB.pdf)


## Security architecture

[Cybersecurity Framework
(NIST)](http://www.nist.gov/cyberframework/index.cfm)

The Framework Core offers a way to take a high-level Security Framework.

[Mobile Security Reference
Architecture](https://s3.amazonaws.com/sitesusa/wp-content/uploads/sites/1151/downloads/2013/05/Mobile-Security-Reference-Architecture.pdf)

The Mobile Security Reference Architecture (MSRA) is a deliverable of
the Digital Government Strategy (DGS). A key objective of the DGS is to
procure and manage mobile devices, applications, and data in smart,
secure, and affordable ways. The MSRA has been released by the Federal
CIO Council and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to assist
Federal Departments and Agencies (D/As) in the secure implementation of
mobile solutions through their enterprise architectures

[Open Reference Architecture for Security and
Privacy](https://security-and-privacy-reference-architecture.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

This reference architecture is created to improve security and privacy
designs in general. In our opinion it is time to stop reinventing the
wheel when it comes down to creating architectures and designs for
security and privacy solutions.

[Open Security Architecture
(OSA)](http://www.opensecurityarchitecture.org/)

OSA distills the know-how of the security architecture community and
provides readily usable patterns for your application. OSA shall be a
free framework that is developed and owned by the community.

[Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)](https://www.owasp.org/)

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is a 501(c)(3)
worldwide not-for-profit charitable organization focused on improving
the security of software.

[Oracle Reference Architecture Security Release
3.1](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/topics/entarch/oracle-ra-security-r3-0-176702.pdf)

This document (2010) provides a reference architecture for designing an
enterprise security framework. This framework supports the security
needs of business solutions and helps to unify the disparate security
resources commonly found in IT today. It offers security services that
are critical to the integrity of modern distributed and service-oriented
solutions, and beneficial to legacy systems as well.

[Privacy Management Reference Model and Methodology
(PMRM)](http://docs.oasis-open.org/pmrm/PMRM/v1.0/csd01/PMRM-v1.0-csd01.html)

The Privacy Management Reference Model and Methodology (PMRM, pronounced
“pim-rim”) provides a model and a methodology for: · understanding and
analyzing privacy policies and their privacy management requirements in
defined use cases; and · selecting the technical services which must be
implemented to support privacy controls. It is particularly relevant for
use cases in which personal information (PI) flows across regulatory,
policy, jurisdictional, and system boundaries.

[SABSA (Sherwood Applied Business Security
Architecture)](http://www.sabsa.org/)

SABSA is a proven methodology for developing business-driven

[Software Assurance Maturity Model](http://www.opensamm.org/)

The Software Assurance Maturity Model (SAMM) is an open framework to
help organizations formulate and implement a strategy for software
security that is tailored to the specific risks facing the organization.

## Software Architecture

[Distributed Microservice Architecture with
Docker](http://openaccess.uoc.edu/webapps/o2/bitstream/10609/56264/7/iurraTFM0616mem%C3%B2ria.pdf)

Master’s Thesis focused on microservice architecture and Docker

[Microservice Architecture Reference Architecture 2017
(RH)](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/reference_architectures/2017/pdf/microservice_architecture/Reference_Architectures-2017-Microservice_Architecture-en-US.pdf)

Microservice REF architecture 2017 of RedHat. Tailored for Java/JBOS.
But with good general principles. This reference architecture provides a
thorough discussion on microservices, some of the factors that go into
determining a client's needs, and cost to benefit parameters. After
defining several potential modularity levels, this paper focuses on
business-driven microservices and provides an implementation using JBoss
EAP 7 (CC-BY-SA)

## Standards

[Advancing Storage and Information
Technology(SNIA)](http://www.snia.org/)

SNIA is a not–for–profit global organization, made up of member
companies spanning the global storage market. SNIA’s mission is to lead
the storage industry worldwide in developing and promoting standards,
technologies,


```{admonition} Consortium for Information & Software Quality (CISQ)
:class: tip, dropdown

[https://www.it-cisq.org/](https://www.it-cisq.org/)
The Consortium for Information & Software Quality (CISQ) stands as a leading advocate for enhancing the quality and reliability of software and information systems. Committed to establishing measurable standards and best practices, CISQ plays a pivotal role in driving improvements across the software development lifecycle.
```


[Digital Signature Standard (DSS) (FIPS PUB 186 –
4)](http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.186-4.pdf)

This (US) Standard defines methods for digital signature generation that
can be used for the protection of binary data (commonly called a
message), and for the verification and validation of those digital
signatures.

[Distributed Management Task Force](http://www.dmtf.org/)

DMTF's Systems Management Architecture for Server Hardware (SMASH)
standard is a suite of specifications that deliver industry standard
semantics, protocols and profiles to make data center resource
management interoperable.

[FIPS PUB 198-1:The Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code
(HMAC)](http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips198-1/FIPS-198-1_final.pdf)

Providing a way to check the integrity of information transmitted over
or stored in an unreliable medium is a prime necessity in the world of
open computing and communications. Mechanisms that provide such
integrity checks based on a secret key are usually called message
authentication codes (MACs). Typically, message authentication codes are
used between two parties that share a secret key in order to
authenticate information transmitted between these parties. This
Standard defines a MAC that uses a cryptographic hash function in
conjunction with a secret key. This mechanism is called HMAC \[HMAC\].
HMAC shall use an Approved cryptographic hash function \[FIPS180-3\].
HMAC uses the secret key for the calculation and verification of the
MACs.

[ITSM Reference Architecture Framework](https://www.fitsm.eu/downloads/)

FitSM is a free and lightweight standards family aimed at facilitating
service management in IT service provision, including federated
scenarios.

[Semantic Versioning 2.0.0](http://semver.org/)

In the world of software management there exists a dread place called
"dependency hell." The bigger your system grows and the more packages
you integrate into your software, the more likely you are to find
yourself, one day, in this pit of despair.
